src/content/blog/understanding-nigos-why-theyre-costing-your-firm-and-how-to-reduce-them.md, before:

---
title: "Understanding NIGOs: Why They’re Costing Your Firm (And How to Reduce Them)"
excerpt: "Precision is paramount when handling finances. As such, in financial services even minor paperwork errors can have significant consequences."
author: "Investipal Team"
publishedDate: "2024-08-07T16:11:38.752Z"
updatedDate: "2025-06-27T14:47:53.333Z"
category: "General"
tags: ["Educational"]
urlPath: "understanding-nigos-why-theyre-costing-your-firm-and-how-to-reduce-them"
featuredImage: "https://cdn.prod.website-files.com/666872ff37bdf42ce9637d77/66e20156ac7e64848a6c981e_Understanding%20NIGOs%20Why%20They%E2%80%99re%20Costing%20Your%20Firm%20(And%20How%20to%20Reduce%20Them)%20(1).png"
featuredImageAlt: "Understanding NIGOs: Why They’re Costing Your Firm (And How to Reduce Them)"
draft: false
---
<p id="">Precision is paramount when handling finances. As such, in financial services even minor paperwork errors can have significant consequences. <a rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank" href="https://www.nasdaq.com/articles/what-is-nigo-and-what-does-it-mean-for-you" id="">Not In Good Order (NIGO) documents</a> refer to any paperwork that is incomplete or contains errors, which can delay account openings and asset transfers, creating additional work and frustrating clients. These errors not only waste time but also increase costs and potentially damage your firm's reputation.</p><p id="">NIGOs aren't just a minor inconvenience—they can lead to lost business and unhappy clients. Reducing NIGOs is crucial for keeping operations smooth and ensuring client satisfaction. This article explores why NIGOs occur and offers practical strategies to eliminate them. We'll also discuss how using advanced tools like Investipal can streamline processes and improve efficiency, allowing you to focus on serving your clients effectively.</p><h2 id="">Understanding the Costs and Implications of NIGOs</h2><p id="">NIGOs, or Not In Good Order documents, are more than just administrative hurdles—they can significantly impact your business in several ways.</p><h3 id=""><strong id="">Operational Delays</strong></h3><ul id=""><li id=""><strong id="">Process Inefficiencies</strong>: When documents are incomplete or incorrect, they need to be corrected and resubmitted, which delays critical processes like account openings and asset transfers. These delays can create bottlenecks, causing disruptions in your workflow and affecting your ability to deliver timely services.</li><li id=""><strong id="">Resource Diversion</strong>: Staff must spend valuable time correcting errors instead of focusing on strategic tasks like advising clients or pursuing growth opportunities. This diversion of resources can reduce overall productivity and affect morale.</li></ul><h3 id=""><strong id="">Financial Impact</strong></h3><ul id=""><li id=""><strong id="">Increased Costs</strong>: Each NIGO represents additional administrative work, which increases operational costs. This includes the need for overtime pay, additional training, and resources to handle rework. Industry studies show that processing a NIGO can cost twice as much as a correctly submitted document.</li><li id=""><strong id="">Lost Business Opportunities</strong>: Time spent addressing NIGOs is time not spent on business development or enhancing client relationships. This can limit your firm’s growth potential and reduce your competitive edge.</li></ul><h3 id=""><strong id="">Client Trust and Satisfaction</strong></h3><ul id=""><li id=""><strong id="">Frustration and Erosion of Trust</strong>: Clients expect smooth and timely service. Delays and errors can lead to frustration, causing clients to question the reliability of your services. This erosion of trust can make it harder to maintain strong client relationships.</li><li id=""><strong id="">Client Attrition</strong>: If clients experience repeated issues due to NIGOs, they might choose to take their business elsewhere. Losing clients not only impacts revenue but can also damage your reputation in the industry.</li></ul><h3 id=""><strong id="">Compliance Risks</strong></h3><ul id=""><li id=""><strong id="">Regulatory Scrutiny</strong>: Frequent documentation errors can attract the attention of regulators, who may scrutinize your firm’s practices more closely. This can lead to audits and additional oversight, consuming more time and resources.</li><li id=""><strong id="">Fines and Penalties</strong>: Non-compliance resulting from NIGO issues can lead to financial penalties, further increasing costs and harming your firm’s financial health. Ensuring compliance is essential to avoid these risks and ensure your firm operates within legal boundaries.</li></ul><p id="">Understanding these implications allows you to strategize effectively to minimize errors and enhance service delivery.</p><figure id="" class="w-richtext-figure-type-image w-richtext-align-fullwidth" style="max-width:2240px" data-rt-type="image" data-rt-align="fullwidth" data-rt-max-width="2240px"><div id=""><img src="/images/inline/understanding-nigos-why-theyre-costing-your-firm-and-how-to-reduce-them-0-b21a76ae01.webp" loading="lazy" alt="Implications of Not-In-Good-Order Documents (NIGOs)" width="auto" height="auto" id=""></div></figure><h2 id="">Common Examples of NIGOs</h2><p id="">NIGOs are prevalent in financial transactions, causing delays and inefficiencies. Here are some common issues that lead to NIGOs:</p><h3 id=""><strong id="">New Account Openings</strong></h3><ul id=""><li id=""><strong id="">Missing Signatures</strong>: Essential signatures from clients or advisors are often overlooked, causing delays. Implementing e-signature solutions like <a rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank" href="https://www.docusign.com" id="">Docusign</a> ensures that documents are signed before submission.</li><li id=""><strong id="">Incomplete Information</strong>: Forms lacking necessary identification or contact details frequently get rejected. Using digital forms that require all fields to be completed before submission can help mitigate this issue.</li><li id=""><strong id="">Incorrect Data Entry</strong>: Errors like mistyped Social Security numbers or account details result in document rejections. Automated data entry systems can help catch these errors early.</li></ul><h3 id=""><strong id="">Mass Transfers and Migrations</strong></h3><ul id=""><li id=""><strong id="">Inaccurate Data Extraction</strong>: Mistakes in extracting holdings from brokerage statements or ACATs forms can cause significant delays. <a href="/blog/using-ocr-technology-to-automate-account-statement-scanning-for-financial-advisors" id="">Leveraging OCR technology</a> can reduce errors by accurately capturing data from these documents.</li><li id=""><strong id="">Inconsistent Data Formats</strong>: Discrepancies in data entry, such as inconsistent date formats, can lead to processing errors. Standardizing data entry formats across systems can minimize these issues.</li><li id=""><strong id="">Wrong Account Details</strong>: Incorrect account numbers or beneficiary information often result in failed transfers. Double-checking data before submission and using verification tools can help avoid these errors.</li></ul><p id="">Understanding the impact of carrier-specific requirements on NIGO rates is crucial. Different carriers have unique requirements, and creating standardized checklists for each can help streamline submissions and reduce errors.</p><figure id="" class="w-richtext-figure-type-image w-richtext-align-fullwidth" style="max-width:2240px" data-rt-type="image" data-rt-align="fullwidth" data-rt-max-width="2240px"><div id=""><img src="/images/inline/understanding-nigos-why-theyre-costing-your-firm-and-how-to-reduce-them-1-2463f38384.webp" loading="lazy" alt="Types of NIGOs that occur most frequently" width="auto" height="auto" id=""></div></figure><h2 id="">Strategies for Reducing NIGOs</h2><p id="">Reducing NIGOs is essential for improving operational efficiency and maintaining client satisfaction. Here are effective strategies to minimize these errors:</p><h3 id=""><strong id="">Adopt Digital Solutions</strong></h3><ul id=""><li id=""><strong id="">Streamline Document Processing</strong>: Digital platforms ensure that all required fields are completed before submission, reducing the chance of missing information. <a rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank" href="https://www.investmentnews.com/fintech/news/schwab-sees-increasing-tech-adoption-among-rias-233075" id="">According to Schwab, digital onboarding can reduce errors from 31% to 4%</a>.</li><li id=""><strong id="">E-signatures and Digital Document Management</strong>: Using electronic signatures and managing documents digitally ensures that signatures aren't missed and that all necessary documents are properly filed and accessible.</li></ul><h3 id=""><strong id="">Implement Automation</strong></h3><ul id=""><li id=""><strong id="">Automated Data Verification</strong>: Automating data entry and verification processes helps catch errors early, reducing the need for manual corrections. Automated systems can also highlight discrepancies that require attention.</li><li id=""><strong id="">Pre-Submission Checks</strong>: Technologies that provide real-time validation can identify discrepancies before documents are submitted, preventing NIGOs from occurring. Implementing these checks as part of the submission process can dramatically reduce errors.</li></ul><h3 id=""><strong id="">Leverage OSJ Support</strong></h3><ul id=""><li id=""><strong id="">Oversight and Training</strong>: Offices of Supervisory Jurisdiction (OSJ) can review documentation for accuracy and completeness before submission, reducing errors. They also provide ongoing training to ensure staff are up-to-date on best practices and compliance requirements.</li></ul><h3 id=""><strong id="">Continuous Training</strong></h3><ul id=""><li id=""><strong id="">Staff Education</strong>: Regular training on compliance requirements and documentation best practices is crucial. Well-informed staff are less likely to make errors that lead to NIGOs. Implementing structured training programs and feedback sessions can significantly reduce errors.</li></ul><h3 id=""><strong id="">Using Client Feedback</strong></h3><ul id=""><li id=""><strong id="">Feedback Loops</strong>: Incorporating client feedback after NIGO incidents can provide valuable insights into areas for improvement. Establishing a feedback loop where clients can report their experiences helps advisors refine their processes.</li></ul><figure id="" class="w-richtext-figure-type-image w-richtext-align-fullwidth" style="max-width:2240px" data-rt-type="image" data-rt-align="fullwidth" data-rt-max-width="2240px"><div id=""><img src="/images/inline/understanding-nigos-why-theyre-costing-your-firm-and-how-to-reduce-them-2-530319ac25.webp" loading="lazy" alt="Digital onboarding can reduce NIGOs" width="auto" height="auto" id=""></div></figure><h2 id="">Leveraging Technology to Minimize NIGOs</h2><p id="">Technology plays a crucial role in reducing NIGOs by streamlining processes and enhancing accuracy. Here are some ways to leverage technology to minimize these errors:</p><h3 id=""><strong id="">Automated Data Extraction</strong></h3><ul id=""><li id=""><strong id="">Optical Character Recognition (OCR)</strong>: <a href="/blog/how-to-extract-account-statement-portfolio-holdings-from-pdfs-using-ai" id="">Automate the extraction of data</a> from forms and statements, reducing manual entry errors and ensuring accuracy. This is particularly useful in minimizing errors during account transfers.</li></ul><figure id="" class="w-richtext-figure-type-image w-richtext-align-fullwidth" style="max-width:2240px" data-rt-type="image" data-rt-align="fullwidth" data-rt-max-width="2240px"><div id=""><img src="/images/inline/understanding-nigos-why-theyre-costing-your-firm-and-how-to-reduce-them-3-1be7006e4d.webp" loading="lazy" alt="Automated data extraction reduces errors" width="auto" height="auto" id=""></div></figure><ul id=""><li id=""><strong id="">Real-Time Data Validation</strong>: Implement tools that validate data during entry, catching errors immediately. These systems can alert staff to potential issues before submission, reducing the risk of NIGOs.</li></ul><figure id="" class="w-richtext-figure-type-image w-richtext-align-fullwidth" style="max-width:2240px" data-rt-type="image" data-rt-align="fullwidth" data-rt-max-width="2240px"><div id=""><img src="/images/inline/understanding-nigos-why-theyre-costing-your-firm-and-how-to-reduce-them-4-4e4ea7c0ca.webp" loading="lazy" alt="Real-time data validation" width="auto" height="auto" id=""></div></figure><h3 id=""><strong id="">Digital Platforms</strong></h3><ul id=""><li id=""><strong id="">Comprehensive Digital Solutions</strong>: Use integrated platforms that streamline client interactions, from onboarding to asset transfers. These platforms reduce the risk of NIGOs by ensuring all steps are completed correctly and consistently.</li><li id=""><strong id="">Workflow Management</strong>: Utilize workflow management tools to track document progress, identify bottlenecks, and ensure timely completion of all tasks. These tools provide transparency and accountability, helping advisors manage workflows more effectively.</li></ul><h3 id=""><strong id="">Managing Client Expectations</strong></h3><ul id=""><li id="">Setting clear expectations with clients about the potential for NIGOs and the steps being taken to minimize them can help manage perceptions and maintain trust. Informing clients upfront about possible follow-ups or additional documentation can prevent misunderstandings and foster a more collaborative relationship.</li></ul><p id="">By incorporating client feedback into processes, financial advisors can further refine their methods to prevent future NIGOs, enhancing both operational efficiency and client satisfaction.</p><h2 id="">Reducing NIGOs with Investipal</h2><p id="">Investipal offers a comprehensive suite of tools designed to address the common challenges associated with NIGOs. With features like automated data extraction through OCR, real-time data validation, and compliance document generation, Investipal helps financial advisors streamline their operations and minimize errors. That means lower costs, faster processes, and happier clients. Interested in learning more? <a href="/book-a-demo" id="">Book a demo today.</a></p>

Commit message:

Add optimized meta descriptions to 18 blog posts (batch 3)

src/content/blog/understanding-nigos-why-theyre-costing-your-firm-and-how-to-reduce-them.md, after:

---
title: "Understanding NIGOs: Why They're Costing Your Firm (And How to Reduce Them)"
excerpt: "Precision is paramount when handling finances. As such, in financial services even minor paperwork errors can have significant consequences."
metaDescription: "NIGOs cost 2x more to process. Learn the 1-10-100 rule, common causes & how digital onboarding cuts errors from 31% to 4%. Reduction strategies inside."
keywords: "nigo reduction, not in good order, reduce nigos, advisor paperwork errors, onboarding errors"
author: "Investipal Team"
publishedDate: "2024-08-07T16:11:38.752Z"
updatedDate: "2025-06-27T14:47:53.333Z"
category: "General"
tags: ["Educational"]
urlPath: "understanding-nigos-why-theyre-costing-your-firm-and-how-to-reduce-them"
featuredImage: "https://cdn.prod.website-files.com/666872ff37bdf42ce9637d77/66e20156ac7e64848a6c981e_Understanding%20NIGOs%20Why%20They%E2%80%99re%20Costing%20Your%20Firm%20(And%20How%20to%20Reduce%20Them)%20(1).png"
featuredImageAlt: "Understanding NIGOs: Why They’re Costing Your Firm (And How to Reduce Them)"
draft: false
---
<p id="">Precision is paramount when handling finances. As such, in financial services even minor paperwork errors can have significant consequences. <a rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank" href="https://www.nasdaq.com/articles/what-is-nigo-and-what-does-it-mean-for-you" id="">Not In Good Order (NIGO) documents</a> refer to any paperwork that is incomplete or contains errors, which can delay account openings and asset transfers, creating additional work and frustrating clients. These errors not only waste time but also increase costs and potentially damage your firm's reputation.</p><p id="">NIGOs aren't just a minor inconvenience—they can lead to lost business and unhappy clients. Reducing NIGOs is crucial for keeping operations smooth and ensuring client satisfaction. This article explores why NIGOs occur and offers practical strategies to eliminate them. We'll also discuss how using advanced tools like Investipal can streamline processes and improve efficiency, allowing you to focus on serving your clients effectively.</p><h2 id="">Understanding the Costs and Implications of NIGOs</h2><p id="">NIGOs, or Not In Good Order documents, are more than just administrative hurdles—they can significantly impact your business in several ways.</p><h3 id=""><strong id="">Operational Delays</strong></h3><ul id=""><li id=""><strong id="">Process Inefficiencies</strong>: When documents are incomplete or incorrect, they need to be corrected and resubmitted, which delays critical processes like account openings and asset transfers. These delays can create bottlenecks, causing disruptions in your workflow and affecting your ability to deliver timely services.</li><li id=""><strong id="">Resource Diversion</strong>: Staff must spend valuable time correcting errors instead of focusing on strategic tasks like advising clients or pursuing growth opportunities. This diversion of resources can reduce overall productivity and affect morale.</li></ul><h3 id=""><strong id="">Financial Impact</strong></h3><ul id=""><li id=""><strong id="">Increased Costs</strong>: Each NIGO represents additional administrative work, which increases operational costs. This includes the need for overtime pay, additional training, and resources to handle rework. Industry studies show that processing a NIGO can cost twice as much as a correctly submitted document.</li><li id=""><strong id="">Lost Business Opportunities</strong>: Time spent addressing NIGOs is time not spent on business development or enhancing client relationships. This can limit your firm’s growth potential and reduce your competitive edge.</li></ul><h3 id=""><strong id="">Client Trust and Satisfaction</strong></h3><ul id=""><li id=""><strong id="">Frustration and Erosion of Trust</strong>: Clients expect smooth and timely service. Delays and errors can lead to frustration, causing clients to question the reliability of your services. This erosion of trust can make it harder to maintain strong client relationships.</li><li id=""><strong id="">Client Attrition</strong>: If clients experience repeated issues due to NIGOs, they might choose to take their business elsewhere. Losing clients not only impacts revenue but can also damage your reputation in the industry.</li></ul><h3 id=""><strong id="">Compliance Risks</strong></h3><ul id=""><li id=""><strong id="">Regulatory Scrutiny</strong>: Frequent documentation errors can attract the attention of regulators, who may scrutinize your firm’s practices more closely. This can lead to audits and additional oversight, consuming more time and resources.</li><li id=""><strong id="">Fines and Penalties</strong>: Non-compliance resulting from NIGO issues can lead to financial penalties, further increasing costs and harming your firm’s financial health. Ensuring compliance is essential to avoid these risks and ensure your firm operates within legal boundaries.</li></ul><p id="">Understanding these implications allows you to strategize effectively to minimize errors and enhance service delivery.</p><figure id="" class="w-richtext-figure-type-image w-richtext-align-fullwidth" style="max-width:2240px" data-rt-type="image" data-rt-align="fullwidth" data-rt-max-width="2240px"><div id=""><img src="/images/inline/understanding-nigos-why-theyre-costing-your-firm-and-how-to-reduce-them-0-b21a76ae01.webp" loading="lazy" alt="Implications of Not-In-Good-Order Documents (NIGOs)" width="auto" height="auto" id=""></div></figure><h2 id="">Common Examples of NIGOs</h2><p id="">NIGOs are prevalent in financial transactions, causing delays and inefficiencies. Here are some common issues that lead to NIGOs:</p><h3 id=""><strong id="">New Account Openings</strong></h3><ul id=""><li id=""><strong id="">Missing Signatures</strong>: Essential signatures from clients or advisors are often overlooked, causing delays. Implementing e-signature solutions like <a rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank" href="https://www.docusign.com" id="">Docusign</a> ensures that documents are signed before submission.</li><li id=""><strong id="">Incomplete Information</strong>: Forms lacking necessary identification or contact details frequently get rejected. Using digital forms that require all fields to be completed before submission can help mitigate this issue.</li><li id=""><strong id="">Incorrect Data Entry</strong>: Errors like mistyped Social Security numbers or account details result in document rejections. Automated data entry systems can help catch these errors early.</li></ul><h3 id=""><strong id="">Mass Transfers and Migrations</strong></h3><ul id=""><li id=""><strong id="">Inaccurate Data Extraction</strong>: Mistakes in extracting holdings from brokerage statements or ACATs forms can cause significant delays. <a href="/blog/using-ocr-technology-to-automate-account-statement-scanning-for-financial-advisors" id="">Leveraging OCR technology</a> can reduce errors by accurately capturing data from these documents.</li><li id=""><strong id="">Inconsistent Data Formats</strong>: Discrepancies in data entry, such as inconsistent date formats, can lead to processing errors. Standardizing data entry formats across systems can minimize these issues.</li><li id=""><strong id="">Wrong Account Details</strong>: Incorrect account numbers or beneficiary information often result in failed transfers. Double-checking data before submission and using verification tools can help avoid these errors.</li></ul><p id="">Understanding the impact of carrier-specific requirements on NIGO rates is crucial. Different carriers have unique requirements, and creating standardized checklists for each can help streamline submissions and reduce errors.</p><figure id="" class="w-richtext-figure-type-image w-richtext-align-fullwidth" style="max-width:2240px" data-rt-type="image" data-rt-align="fullwidth" data-rt-max-width="2240px"><div id=""><img src="/images/inline/understanding-nigos-why-theyre-costing-your-firm-and-how-to-reduce-them-1-2463f38384.webp" loading="lazy" alt="Types of NIGOs that occur most frequently" width="auto" height="auto" id=""></div></figure><h2 id="">Strategies for Reducing NIGOs</h2><p id="">Reducing NIGOs is essential for improving operational efficiency and maintaining client satisfaction. Here are effective strategies to minimize these errors:</p><h3 id=""><strong id="">Adopt Digital Solutions</strong></h3><ul id=""><li id=""><strong id="">Streamline Document Processing</strong>: Digital platforms ensure that all required fields are completed before submission, reducing the chance of missing information. <a rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank" href="https://www.investmentnews.com/fintech/news/schwab-sees-increasing-tech-adoption-among-rias-233075" id="">According to Schwab, digital onboarding can reduce errors from 31% to 4%</a>.</li><li id=""><strong id="">E-signatures and Digital Document Management</strong>: Using electronic signatures and managing documents digitally ensures that signatures aren't missed and that all necessary documents are properly filed and accessible.</li></ul><h3 id=""><strong id="">Implement Automation</strong></h3><ul id=""><li id=""><strong id="">Automated Data Verification</strong>: Automating data entry and verification processes helps catch errors early, reducing the need for manual corrections. Automated systems can also highlight discrepancies that require attention.</li><li id=""><strong id="">Pre-Submission Checks</strong>: Technologies that provide real-time validation can identify discrepancies before documents are submitted, preventing NIGOs from occurring. Implementing these checks as part of the submission process can dramatically reduce errors.</li></ul><h3 id=""><strong id="">Leverage OSJ Support</strong></h3><ul id=""><li id=""><strong id="">Oversight and Training</strong>: Offices of Supervisory Jurisdiction (OSJ) can review documentation for accuracy and completeness before submission, reducing errors. They also provide ongoing training to ensure staff are up-to-date on best practices and compliance requirements.</li></ul><h3 id=""><strong id="">Continuous Training</strong></h3><ul id=""><li id=""><strong id="">Staff Education</strong>: Regular training on compliance requirements and documentation best practices is crucial. Well-informed staff are less likely to make errors that lead to NIGOs. Implementing structured training programs and feedback sessions can significantly reduce errors.</li></ul><h3 id=""><strong id="">Using Client Feedback</strong></h3><ul id=""><li id=""><strong id="">Feedback Loops</strong>: Incorporating client feedback after NIGO incidents can provide valuable insights into areas for improvement. Establishing a feedback loop where clients can report their experiences helps advisors refine their processes.</li></ul><figure id="" class="w-richtext-figure-type-image w-richtext-align-fullwidth" style="max-width:2240px" data-rt-type="image" data-rt-align="fullwidth" data-rt-max-width="2240px"><div id=""><img src="/images/inline/understanding-nigos-why-theyre-costing-your-firm-and-how-to-reduce-them-2-530319ac25.webp" loading="lazy" alt="Digital onboarding can reduce NIGOs" width="auto" height="auto" id=""></div></figure><h2 id="">Leveraging Technology to Minimize NIGOs</h2><p id="">Technology plays a crucial role in reducing NIGOs by streamlining processes and enhancing accuracy. Here are some ways to leverage technology to minimize these errors:</p><h3 id=""><strong id="">Automated Data Extraction</strong></h3><ul id=""><li id=""><strong id="">Optical Character Recognition (OCR)</strong>: <a href="/blog/how-to-extract-account-statement-portfolio-holdings-from-pdfs-using-ai" id="">Automate the extraction of data</a> from forms and statements, reducing manual entry errors and ensuring accuracy. This is particularly useful in minimizing errors during account transfers.</li></ul><figure id="" class="w-richtext-figure-type-image w-richtext-align-fullwidth" style="max-width:2240px" data-rt-type="image" data-rt-align="fullwidth" data-rt-max-width="2240px"><div id=""><img src="/images/inline/understanding-nigos-why-theyre-costing-your-firm-and-how-to-reduce-them-3-1be7006e4d.webp" loading="lazy" alt="Automated data extraction reduces errors" width="auto" height="auto" id=""></div></figure><ul id=""><li id=""><strong id="">Real-Time Data Validation</strong>: Implement tools that validate data during entry, catching errors immediately. These systems can alert staff to potential issues before submission, reducing the risk of NIGOs.</li></ul><figure id="" class="w-richtext-figure-type-image w-richtext-align-fullwidth" style="max-width:2240px" data-rt-type="image" data-rt-align="fullwidth" data-rt-max-width="2240px"><div id=""><img src="/images/inline/understanding-nigos-why-theyre-costing-your-firm-and-how-to-reduce-them-4-4e4ea7c0ca.webp" loading="lazy" alt="Real-time data validation" width="auto" height="auto" id=""></div></figure><h3 id=""><strong id="">Digital Platforms</strong></h3><ul id=""><li id=""><strong id="">Comprehensive Digital Solutions</strong>: Use integrated platforms that streamline client interactions, from onboarding to asset transfers. These platforms reduce the risk of NIGOs by ensuring all steps are completed correctly and consistently.</li><li id=""><strong id="">Workflow Management</strong>: Utilize workflow management tools to track document progress, identify bottlenecks, and ensure timely completion of all tasks. These tools provide transparency and accountability, helping advisors manage workflows more effectively.</li></ul><h3 id=""><strong id="">Managing Client Expectations</strong></h3><ul id=""><li id="">Setting clear expectations with clients about the potential for NIGOs and the steps being taken to minimize them can help manage perceptions and maintain trust. Informing clients upfront about possible follow-ups or additional documentation can prevent misunderstandings and foster a more collaborative relationship.</li></ul><p id="">By incorporating client feedback into processes, financial advisors can further refine their methods to prevent future NIGOs, enhancing both operational efficiency and client satisfaction.</p><h2 id="">Reducing NIGOs with Investipal</h2><p id="">Investipal offers a comprehensive suite of tools designed to address the common challenges associated with NIGOs. With features like automated data extraction through OCR, real-time data validation, and compliance document generation, Investipal helps financial advisors streamline their operations and minimize errors. That means lower costs, faster processes, and happier clients. Interested in learning more? <a href="/book-a-demo" id="">Book a demo today.</a></p>
